Fluorescence -Based assays (S2)

 

Dr Martin Wasser

Research Scientist, Imaging Informatics Group, Bioinformatics Institute

Wed 30th Jan 1615-1700

 

Abstract

3D Time-lapse Imaging of developmental processes in the fruit fly Drosophila using the LSM 5 Live Microscopy System

 

Imaging the dynamics of live cells in multiple dimensions will significantly advance our understanding of biology. However the vast amounts of data produced by 3D time-lapse microscopy (typically in the double digit Gigabyte range) cannot be analyzed by human operators using traditional imaging software in an efficient and reproducible manner. To accelerate the interpretation of high-content microscopy data, my group aims to develop software solutions that apply computer vision methods to automate the image analysis pipeline. We produce the bulk of our 3D movies using the Zeiss LSM 5 Live high-speed laser scanning confocal microscope located at the BSF. With the help of fluorescently tagged fusion proteins we follow two major processes in Drosophila development. In embryos, we are interested in tracking cell migration and cell cycle progression. During metamorphosis, we study apoptosis and remodeling of the musculature. Following image acquisition, we perform a series of image processing and computer vision methods, such as deconvolution, segmentation, feature extraction, object tracking and classification. I will illustrate how multi-dimensional microscopy in combination with a quantitative analysis of cellular feature can help us gain novel insights into biological processes.

 

Biography

Dr. Martin Wasser works as Research Scientist at the Bioinformatics Institute (BII). In 1993, he obtained the Biology degree from the University of Cologne in Germany. In 1998, he received his PhD in Molecular and Cell Biology from the IMCB in Singapore. While doing postdoctoral research he obtained a Master’s degree in Knowledge Engineering from the Institute of Systems Science. Before joining BII he worked as a research fellow at the Temasek LifeSciences Laboratory. Since 2007, he has been heading a research team in the division of Imaging Informatics, focusing on live-cell imaging and the automation of image analysis.



 
Bioimaging (S1)

Sir George K. Radda

Chairman, Singapore Bioimaging Consortium

Wed 30th Jan 0900-0945

 

Abstract

The Challenges for Molecular Imaging in Biomedical Research

 

The rapid advances in molecular genetics, the need to systematically examine the chemical and cellular networks in the intact living organism and the increased

emphasis to be able to observe the molecular functionalities and dynamics in living systems brought about a new surge in what is described as molecular imaging. Methods have been available for many years but the need to obtain meaningful in vivo quantitative measurements brought many new challenges.

 

The biological challenge is to select the most appropriate target for observation which varies from Genes (DNA) to message (RNA), gene product (protein) to functionality.

The Physics and Engineering challenge is to devise more and more sensitive detection methods of a variety of signals with high resolution and sufficient penetration into biological objects. The challenge to the chemists is to design specific molecules that can probe, specify and amplify the underlying biological information. Material scientists are called upon to meet the challenge of inventing new constructions of particles such as nanoparticles that can be used in a novel way as biological detectors or for delivering biomarkers to specific sites.

Patterns of Gene Expression (detected by optical means) interact with and depend on the metabolic and energetic state of the organism (observed by Magnetic Resonance Imaging and Spectroscopy). This way we can begin to describe and put together the information that is associated with a loss of control and hence results in disease. Thus the basic science discoveries can be taken to the clinic using molecular imaging techniques. We need better and more sensitive and specific measurements and one of such advances, hyperpolarised 13-C MR spectroscopy and imaging. There can be no better examples where the interaction between the physical and biomedical sciences is more appropriate than in the field of molecular bioimaging.

 

The mission of SBIC is to harness existing imaging expertise and capabilities in Singapore and develop them into a focused national platform to support the growth of multi-disciplinary research activities and speed the development and translation of biomedical research discoveries into clinical applications.

 

Biography

Professor Sir George Karoly Radda came to Oxford in 1956 from Hungary. He obtained his MA in Chemistry and D.Phil. in Physical Organic Chemistry at Merton College Oxford. Following a year of post-doctoral work with Melvin Calvin in Berkeley, California (1962-63) he returned to Oxford. Since then he held the following posts: Junior Research Fellow, Merton College (1961-64); Lecturer in Organic Chemistry, St. John’s College  (1963-64); Departmental Demonstrator in Biochemistry (1964-66); Fellow and Tutor in Organic Chemistry, Merton College (1964-84); University Lecturer in Biochemistry (1966-84); British Heart Foundation Professor of Molecular Cardiology (1984-2003); Professorial Fellow, Merton College (1984-2003); Honorary Director MRC Biochemical and Clinical Magnetic Resonance Unit (1988-96); Head, Department of Biochemistry (1991-96); Chief Executive Medical Research Council (on secondment) (1996-2003); Chairman National Cancer Research Institute (2001-2003). He is currently Head of the Department of Physiology, Anatomy and Genetics at Oxford University and Chairman of the Singapore Bioimaging Consortium and Head of the Laboratory of Metabolic Medicine in the Helios Building in Biopolis.

 

His research interests range from studies of enzyme regulation, bioenergetics and in vivo biochemistry in relation to human disease and in particular heart disease. His early work was concerned with the development of fluorescent probes for the study of structure and function of membranes and enzymes. In 1974 he published the first paper on the use of phosphorus Nuclear Magnetic Resonance to study tissue metabolites. Since then (and later as Director of the MRC Biochemical and Clinical Magnetic Resonance Unit 1988-1996) he has been involved in the development of this technique for biochemical and Clinical investigations. The current research programme in Singapore is aimed at understanding the biological basis of the metabolic syndrome and the mechanisms of interaction between the endocrine system (in particular insulin release and response) with the Central Nervous system.