siRNA versus shRNA

--

shRNA: http://www.protocol-online.org/biology-forums/shRNA.html

--

shRNAs = only use if require stable-knockdown

siRNAs = preferred method for screening

shRNAs =
1) you have to clone
2) you have to verify insert
3) you should try to determine how much of the shRNA are the cells expressing
4) sometimes kills cells or IFN as pcrman indicated
5) recombination
6) more difficult to transfect
7) more difficult to control and understand rules for loop sequences

BUT, if you want STABLE knockdown then vectors is where you need to go. Look into viral-based vectors.

--

the mechanism to which RNAi works in the cell is the same with shRNA and siRNA. Only the enzyme dicer will cleave the shRNA into an siRNA like oligo (removes the hairpin). The enzyme recognizes an oddly shaped hairpin structure and cleaves it.

http://www.protocol-online.org/biology-forums/posts/7463.html

---

for siRNA, if u want to continuosly see a silencing effect, u have to transfect it constantly, as siRNA gets degraded in the cells after a few days. (The level drops after 4-5 days). This is because siRNA does not get passed down after cell division.
For shRNA, its basis is the same as plasmid DNA. After stable transfection, the plasmid gets randomly integrated into the genome and gets passed down after replication (although u need to check it just to be sure. there are times, where it just gets "lost" after many passages)
hope it helps
-sharonpek-

--

siRNA:
you control the ratio: moles of duplex/ number of cells
less off-targets (non desired silenced targets)

shRNA:
You have less problem in transfecting, but you have more in the design of the vector,
you have to establish a stable cell line and test it for the silencing, but then as soon as you have it you have very reproducible results (in theory wink.gif )
gives more off-targets (non desired silenced targets) because you don't control the promoter strength even if you can select a line of cell that only has one vector inside.

-

For any long term knockdown studies, one needs shRNA.

-scolix-

http://www.protocol-online.org/biology-forums/posts/24243.html
--

Because siRNA's are chemically synthesized they are way more expensive than having a plasmide that codes for a shRNA.

Cloning of shRNA plasmids is not trivial either. The common strategy is to have primer who span the complete shRNA (sense, loop, antisense) and just anneal those followed by ligation. But because of the internal complementarity of the sequences, the primer tend to anneal with themself and you will get many wrong clones. Sequencing of clones is essential here - but needs some experience too because of the secondary structures.
In other words: what you should decide for is a matter of what you want to achieve, what system you want to work in and what you have available moneywise.

http://www.protocol-online.org/biology-forums/posts/21745.html

--

siRNA is small interferance RNA, synthesized and applied directly on target. short term knockdown only

shRNA is short helical RNA, have to be cloned into a vector. the plasmids can be used for transfecting cells. Or made into virus (if viral vector) and could be used for long term knockdown.
-scolix-

--

shRNA libraries:

http://www.rnainterference.org/Sequences.html ,check out
-zheng-

--

